# Publications

This project was created for the purpose of organizing and listing data about my publications. I intend to list here freely all the academic works developed, in addition to research, publications, master's thesis, among others.

## University graduate
### Title: Artificial Neural Networks Applied to Pattern Recognition

The artificial neural networks (ANNs) are mathematical models inspired by the human brain, more specifically in the ability to learn, process, and perform tasks. ANNs are powerful tools that help solve complex problems mainly related to combinatorial optimization and machine learning. In this sense, the neural networks have the most varied possible applications, because such models can adapt to the situations presented, ensuring a gradual increase of performance without any human interference occurring. The present work has the objective to demonstrate the architecture and processes involved in the general functioning of a neural network, having as main focus the Perceptron Algorithms and their applications amid the problems of pattern recognition. Firstly, It is described the basic concepts that relate these networks to the biological neural structure that form the nervous system. In addition, several characteristics, specifications, related structures, different applications are detailed and how the training of these models occurs. The work in question proposes an analysis of the capacity of Perceptron neural networks in several aspects. In this way, It is proposed this work the implementation and testing of such networks in a real application. Therefore, this approach made it possible to demonstrate through a real problem that these networks are efficient in obtaining a satisfactory solution and consistent with the results found.

- **Link to my graduate final project**: https://github.com/vitorglemos/publications/blob/main/graduation/final_project_graduation.pdf

## Master's Thesis
### Title: ProspectiveProv: Prospective Provenance of Scripted Experiments

Recently, many programming languages have become popular in the scientific environment, especially scripting languages, due to their high abstraction level. In this context, many scientists began to model their scientific experiments in scripting languages to ensure more control and efficient data management when seeking for results. If, on one side, scripts allow scientists to optimize and automate their computational experiments, on the other side, the need to modify the script and execute it several times to confirm or refute the experimental hypothesis generates large quantities of data. Provenance plays a key role in helping scientists keep track of all these changes and execution data in this scenario. However, current provenance management tools for scripts fail in two main aspects: (i) they fail in providing an intuitive visualization of prospective provenance, and (ii) they fail in merging prospective and retrospective provenance in a single diagram. To fill in these gaps, this dissertation presents ProspectiveProv, an approach that aims at helping scientists to understand the structure of script experiments. To do so, ProspectiveProv uses prospective and retrospective provenance to generate diagrams that represent the structure of the experiment code as a means to support the process of understanding and analyzing the results of scientific experiments modeled as Python scripts. To evaluate our proposed approach, we compare the diagrams generated by ProspectiveProv with those generated by similar approaches, and also with the isolated use of scripts (no diagrams). The experimental results show that ProspectiveProv is as efficient and effective as the compared approaches when considering complex scripts. Also, users from other knowledge areas (not computer science) felt more comfortable when using diagrams generated by ProspectiveProv.

- **Link to my master's thesis**: https://sucupira.capes.gov.br/sucupira/public/consultas/coleta/trabalhoConclusao/viewTrabalhoConclusao.jsf?popup=true&id_trabalho=10967323

## Paper Publications
### Title: P+RProv: Prospective+Retrospective Provenance Graphs of Python Scripts

The evolution of technology has enabled scientists to advance the automation of scientific experiments. Many programming languages have become popular in the scientific environment, especially scripting languages, due to their high abstraction level and simplicity, allowing the specification of complex tasks in fewer steps than traditional programming languages. Due to these features, lots of scientists model their scientific experiments in scripting languages to ensure data management and results control. However, this type of experiment usually generates large volumes of data, making data analysis and threat mitigation difficult. To fill in this gap, we propose P+RProv, an approach to aid scientists in understanding the structure of Python scripts and their results.

- **Link to this paper**: https://sol.sbc.org.br/journals/index.php/jidm/article/view/2059
- **Project link and results**: https://github.com/dew-uff/prospective-prov/
